# This is Advanced Darkness
Get your rotten soul out of my lap!~ the shellcoder cometh.

This is about x86 (mostly in the context of IA32 progcessors). Opcode fall under such a strange category for me, you code in C and then convert it to x86. You use small registers trying to avoid bad chars but it might be easier to just use msfencode, then again with that you're borrowing someone elses code for these environments.You must modify it too not be detected by AV and even then, it can still be deteced.

A modern computer makes no real distinction between instructions and data. If a processor can be fed instructions when it should be seeing data, it will happily go about executing the passed instructions. This characteristic makes system exploitation possible. Before getting started I highly reccomend reading this http://insecure.org/stf/smashstack.htmlhttp://insecure.org/stf/smashstack.html

Finally, as is the case with other documents here, resources and references are placed at the bottom

Memory_Management

Registers

Recognize_C_Code

The_Stack

## Quickguide

\<reg32>     	Any 32-bit register (EAX, EBX, ECX, EDX, ESI, EDI, ESP, or EBP)

\<reg16> 	    Any 16-bit register (AX, BX, CX, or DX)

\<reg8>      	Any 8-bit register (AH, BH, CH, DH, AL, BL, CL, or DL)

\<reg> 	        Any register
	
\<mem> 	A memory address (e.g., [eax], [var + 4], or dword ptr [eax+ebx])
\<con32> 	Any 32-bit constant
\<con16> 	Any 16-bit constant
\<con8> 	Any 8-bit constant
\<con> 	Any 8-, 16-, or 32-bit constant


Stack - grows down LIFO

Heap - grows up FIFO

Little Endian - Right to left

Big Endian - Left to Right

Middle Endian - I just like to say this when describing unreadable stuff (but it is unfortunately a real and sometimes referred to as mixed endian format, ARM can produce this format and it's best described in the context of American date time where the data can be striped across memory)

Prolog (Function Prologue)- At the beginning of a function, preps the Stack and Registers for use within the function.  It's typcically something like, push the current basepointer on the stack so it can be restored late, assign esp to ebp so a stack frame will be created ontop of the old stack frame, then calculates the address space required for the variables local to the function and increments or decrements depending on whether the stack grows up or down respectively, reserving this space on the stack. ie [PUSH ebp ; MOV ebp, esp ; SUB esp, N]  

Epilogue - (Function Epilogue) This reverses the acctions of the prologue and returns control to the calling function. Typically in the format of, drop the stack pointer to the current base pointer freeing space from prologue for local variables that was previously reserved. Pops the base pointer off the stack, so it is restored to its value before the prologue. Returns to the calling function, by popping the previous frame's program counter off the stack and jumping to it. [MOV esp, ebp ; POP ebp ; RET]

### Mnemonics

POP - Loads the value from the top of the stack to the location specified with the destination operand (or explicit opcode) and then increments the stack pointer

PUSH  - Decrements the stack pointer and then stores the source operand on the top of the stack.

MOV - assign the contents of a value or register into another register

JMP - Moves to an address

RET - Transfers program control to a return address located on the top of the stack. The address is usually placed on the stack by a CALL instruction, and the return is made to the instruction that follows the CALL.

CALL - [PUSH eip, JMP address] Changes the programs flow. while it cannot access EIP, it pushes value of the "old" return address (eip) onto the stack so may return too it later

SUB - 

LEAVE - [MOV esp, ebp ; POP ebp ] Mnemonic equivalen to whats in the brackets

POP POP RET is a sequence of instructions needed in order to create SEH (Structured Exception Handler) exploits


### Notable Registers

ESP - Extended stack pointer. The stack pointer points to the memory address where the next operation in the stack will occcur.rol

EBP - Extended Base Pointer, holds the base address of the stack. All parameters and local variables would be at a fixed offset from the base pointer even as the stack pointer moved with push and pop instructions. However it can be used as a general purpose register and with new compilers, making tracing up the stack more difficult.

EIP - Extended Instruction Pointer

DW - Define word, a static data region (like a global variable) assigned two bytes (similarly DB and DD obviouslly being 1 and 4 respectively)

OR - logical comparison operator If one  bit, or both bits are 1, it returns 1. If both bits are 0, it returns 0 . So an or comparison of 5(0101) and 3(0011) returns a value of 7 (0111)


### Register Notes

General Purpose Registers 32 bit

Segment Registers 16 bits

Control Registers 32 bits

Other (varies in size)


#### Memory Management
<a name="Memory_Management"></a>

You need to understand memory management in order to understand how memory overflows from portion of memory to another.

When a program is executed, it is laid out and mapped into memory in this order. 

1. First, the operating system creates an address space in which the program will run. This address space includes the actual program instructions as well as any required data.

2. Next, information is loaded from the program’s executable file to the newly created address space. There are three types of segments: .text , .bss , and .data .

    - The .bss and .data segments are reserved for global variables and are **writeable**.
    - The .data segment contains static initialized data, and the .bss segment contains uninitialized data**writeable**. 
    - The final segment, .text , holds the program instructions and **readable**.
    
3. Finally, the stack and the heap are initialized. The stack is a data structure, more specifically a Last In First Out (LIFO) data structure, which means that the most recent data placed, or pushed, onto the stack is the next item to be removed, or popped, from the stack. A LIFO data structure is ideal for storing transitory information, or information that does not need to be stored for a lengthy period of time. The stack stores local variables, information relating to function calls, and other information used to clean up the stack after a function or procedure is called. The heap is another data structure used to hold program information, more specifically, dynamic variables. The heap is (roughly) a First In First Out (FIFO) data structure. Data is placed and removed from the heap as it builds. 

Another thing it's important to know is that- 

The stack grows down the address space: as more data is added to the stack, it is added at increasingly lower address values.

The heap grows up the address space: As data is added to the heap, it is added at an increasingly higher address value.

~~~
↑ Lower addresses (0x08000000)
Shared libraries
.text
.bss
Heap (grows ↓)
Stack (grows ↑)
env pointer
Argc
↓ Higher addresses (0xbfffffff)
~~~
#### Registers

<a name="Registers"></a>


Exploiting security holes requires a firm grasp of assembly language, because most exploits will require you to write (or modify existing) code in assembly.

Registers are memory and usually tied to hardware. Registers can be grouped into 4 categories.
 * General Purpose
 * Segment
 * Control
 * Other
 
**General-purpose registers** -  Used to perform a range of common mathematical operations. They include registers such as EAX , EBX , and ECX for the IA32, and can be used to store data and addresses, offset addresses, perform counting functions, and many other things. ESP, the extended stack pointer, is one of the most notable and important to understand. ESP points to the memory address where the next stack operation will take place.

**Segment Registers** - Segment registers, such as CS , DS , and SS , are used to keep track of segments and to allow backward compatibility with 16-bit applications.

**Control Registers** - Used to control functions of the processor. Notably, EIP or the Extended Instruction Pointer, which contains the next instruction the machine will execute.

**Other Category** are simply registers that do not fit neatly into the first three categories. One of these registers is the Extended Flags ( EFLAGS ) register, which comprises many single-bit registers that are used to store the results of various tests performed by the processor.

### Recognizing C & C++ code constructs in assembly

<a name="Recognize_C_Code"></a>

C, C++, and C# is the family of C, C was my first programming language with C++ being my second and for those reaspons my own perspective of their difficulty may be skewed. The C family is one of the most widely used languages out there, offering a solid kind of middle ground between between higher level languages and lower ones. While I don't know for certain i believe having an understanding of C is absolutely essential for the rest of this if you have no previous experience with assembly. Understanding how C variables, pointers, functions, and memory allocation are represented by assembly will not only make this easier understand, it will give you foundational knowledge to learn and work with the following assembly.

Let’s look at declaring an integer in C++, then using that same integer for counting:

~~~
int number;
[code here]
number++;
~~~

Translated into Assembly:

~~~
number dw 0
[code here]
mov eax,number
inc eax
mov number,eax
~~~
 Using the DW 16 bit register, we initialize a variable called "number" to 0(number dw 0). Next we put the value of "number" into the EAX register (move eax, number), increment the value in the EAX register by one(inc eax), and then move this value in EAX back into the variable "number" integer (mov number, eax)
 
 
Look at a simple if statement in C++:
~~~
int number;
if (number<0)
{
[code here]
}
~~~

Now, look at the same if statement in assembly:
~~~
number dw 0
mov eax,number
or eax,eax
jge label
<no>
label :<yes>
~~~

What we are doing here is defining a value (of zero) for number again with the DW instruction. Then we move the value stored in number into EAX , then we jump to label if number is greater than or equal to zero with Jump if Greater than or Equal to (JGE)

Here’s another example, using an array:
~~~
int array[4];
[code here]
array[2]=9;
~~~

Here we have declared an array "array" , and set an array element equal to 9 .
~~~
In assembly we have:
array dw 0,0,0,0
[code here]
mov ebx,2
mov array[ebx],9
~~~

In this example, we declare an array, then use the EBX registerto select a location in the array, after which we place the value of 9 in the second location in the array


### The Stack
<a name="The_Stack"></a>

The stack is a LIFO data structure, meaning the last element placed on the stack is the first element that must be removed. The boundary of the stack is defined by ESP, which points to the top of the stack. Stack-specific instructions, such as PUSH and POP, use ESP to know where the stack is in memory. In most architectures (and in our case with IA32) ESP points to the last address used by the stack in other implementations it may point to the first free address.

Data is placed onto the stack using **push**  and removed from the stack using the **pop** instruction, both are optimized to be efficient at pushing data onto and off of the stack.
~~~
push 1
push addr var
~~~
These two instructions will first place the value 1 on the stack, then place the address of variable VAR on top of it. The stack will look like that shown below

 Address | Value                   |   
|---------|-------------------------|
| 643410h | Address of variable VAR |  
| 643414h | 1                       |
| 643418h |                         |

\<-- ESP points to 643410h

The ESP register will point to the top of the stack, address 643410h . Values are pushed onto the stack in the order of execution, so we have the value 1 pushed on first, and then the address of variable VAR . When a PUSH instruction is executed, ESP is decremented by four, and the dword is written to the new address stored in the ESP register.

~~~
pop eax
pop ebx
~~~


 Address | Value                   |   
|---------|-------------------------|
| 643410h | Address of variable VAR |  
| 643414h | 1                       |
| 643418h |                         |

The POP instruction only changes the value of ESP —it does not write or erase data from the stack. Rather, POP writes data to the operand. 

In this example, it first writes the address of variable VAR to EAX and then writing the value 1 to EBX.

Another relevant register to the stack is EBP . The EBP register is usually used to calculate an address relative to another address, sometimes called a frame pointer. Although it can be used as a general-purpose register, EBP has historically been used for working with the stack. For example, the following instruction makes use of EBP as an index.

~~~
mov eax,[ebp+10h]
~~~

This instruction will move a dword from 16 bytes (10 in hex) down the stack (remember, the stack grows toward lower-numbered addresses) into EAX.






---
Refs:
Shellcoders handbook
	
http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~evans/cs216/guides/x86.html

http://insecure.org/stf/smashstack.html
