NIST SP 800-53r4 notes

Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems
and Organizations
1 Introduction
1.1 Purpose and 
1.2 Target Audience
1.3 Relationship to Other Security Control Publications
1.4 Organizational Responsibilties

1.1
The purpose of this publication is to provide guidelines for selecting and specifying security controls for organizations and information systems supporting the executive agencies of the federal government to meet the requirements of FIPS Publication 200.


The guidelines in this special publication are applicable to all federal information systems other than those systems designated as national security systems as defined in 44 U.S.C., Section 3542.

1.2 Target Audience

Individuals with information system, security, and/or risk management and oversight responsibilities. Individuals with information system development responsibilities. Individuals with information security implementation and operational responsibilities. Individuals with information security assessment and monitoring responsibilities. Commercial companies producing
 information technology products and systems, creating information security-related technologies, or providing information security services.
 
1.3 Relationship to Other Security Control Publications

(Some stuff about why, NIST SP 800-53 is the epitome of overall encompassing security guidelines and how it is applicable in the protection of information and information systems, and some other stuff. This is the most important info-sec document in history according to its creators, how its greatness can be used to demonstrate security controls so diverse and amazing it can be applied to even overlays and specialized systems. There isn't much important info here, it's mostly professional bragging, to sum up, NIST Special Publication 800-53A provides guidance on assessing the effectiveness of security controls.)

1.4 Organizational Responsibilties

Organizations use FIPS Publication 199 to categorize their information and information systems. Information is categorized as follows:

Tier 1 (Organization Level)
Tier 2 (Mission/business process Level)
Tier 3 (information system level)

 In accordance with FIPS Publication 200, organizations use the security categorization results from Tiers 1 and 2 to designate organizational information systems at Tier 3 as low impact, moderate impact, or high impact.
For each organizational information system at Tier 3, the recommendation for security controls from the _baseline_ controls defined in Appendix D is the starting point for the security control _tailoring_ process. These two terms are defined later in Chapter 3.


